README.md, before:

<img alt="Cover Image" src="images/retypeset-en-desktop.webp"/>
<img alt="Cover Image" src="images/retypeset-en-mobile.webp"/>

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
            srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/-English-4593F8?style=for-the-badge" />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
            srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/-English-0A69DA?style=for-the-badge" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-English-0A69DA?style=for-the-badge" alt="English">
  </picture>
  <a title="zh" href="README.zh.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-%E7%AE%80%E4%BD%93%E4%B8%AD%E6%96%87-545759?style=for-the-badge" alt="简体中文">
  </a>
</div>

# Retypeset

Retypeset is a static blog theme based on the [Astro](https://astro.build/) framework. Inspired by [Typography](https://astro-theme-typography.vercel.app/), Retypeset establishes a new visual standard and reimagines the layout of all pages, creating a reading experience reminiscent of paper books, reviving the beauty of typography. Details in every sight, elegance in every space.

## Demo

- [Retypeset](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/en/)
- [Retipografía](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/es/)
- [Переверстка](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/ru/)
- [重新编排](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/)
- [重新編排](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/zh-tw/)
- [再組版](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/ja/)

## Features

- Built with Astro and UnoCSS
- Support for SEO, Sitemap, OpenGraph, TOC, RSS, MDX and LaTeX
- i18n support
- Light / Dark mode
- Elegant view transitions
- Rich theme customization
- Optimized typography
- Responsive design
- Comment system

## Performance

<br>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pagespeed.web.dev/analysis?url=https%3A%2F%2Fretypeset.radishzz.cc%2Fen%2F&form_factor=desktop">
    <img width="710" alt="Retypeset Lighthouse Score" src="images/retypeset-lighthouse-score.svg">
  <a>
</p>

## Getting Started

1. [Fork](https://github.com/radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset/fork) this repository, or use this template to create a new repository.
2. Run the following commands in your terminal:

   ```bash
   # Clone the repository
   git clone <repository-url>

   # Navigate to the project directory
   cd <repository-name>

   # Install pnpm globally (if not already installed)
   npm install -g pnpm

   # Install dependencies
   pnpm install

   # Start the development server
   pnpm dev
   ```
3. Refer to the [Theme Guide](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/en/posts/theme-guide/) to customize your blog and create new articles.
4. Refer to the [Astro Deployment Guides](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/deploy/) to deploy your blog to Netlify, Vercel, or other platforms.

&emsp;[![Deploy to Netlify](images/deploy-netlify.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start) [![Deploy to Vercel](images/deploy-vercel.svg)](https://vercel.com/new)

## Updates

Retypeset releases [new features](https://github.com/radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset/issues/18) from time to time. You can refer to the [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/syncing-a-fork) and run `Sync fork` in your repository to sync with the latest branch. Do not click `Discard Changes`, or you will lose your modifications.

## Credits

- [Typography](https://github.com/moeyua/astro-theme-typography)
- [Fuwriu](https://github.com/saicaca/fuwari)
- [Redefine](https://github.com/EvanNotFound/hexo-theme-redefine)
- [AstroPaper](https://github.com/satnaing/astro-paper)
- [heti](https://github.com/sivan/heti)
- [EarlySummerSerif](https://github.com/GuiWonder/EarlySummerSerif)

## Star History

<p align="center">
<a href="https://star-history.com/#radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&Date">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&type=Date&theme=dark" />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&type=Date" />
    <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&type=Date" />
  </picture>
</p>

Commit message:

docs: update readme and theme guide

README.md, after:

<img alt="Cover Image" src="images/retypeset-en-desktop.webp"/>
<img alt="Cover Image" src="images/retypeset-en-mobile.webp"/>

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
            srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/-English-4593F8?style=for-the-badge" />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
            srcset="https://img.shields.io/badge/-English-0A69DA?style=for-the-badge" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-English-0A69DA?style=for-the-badge" alt="English">
  </picture>
  <a title="zh" href="README.zh.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-%E7%AE%80%E4%BD%93%E4%B8%AD%E6%96%87-545759?style=for-the-badge" alt="简体中文">
  </a>
</div>

# Retypeset

Retypeset is a static blog theme based on the [Astro](https://astro.build/) framework. Inspired by [Typography](https://astro-theme-typography.vercel.app/), Retypeset establishes a new visual standard and reimagines the layout of all pages, creating a reading experience reminiscent of paper books, reviving the beauty of typography. Details in every sight, elegance in every space.

## Demo

- [Retypeset](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/en/)
- [Retipografía](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/es/)
- [Переверстка](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/ru/)
- [重新编排](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/)
- [重新編排](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/zh-tw/)
- [再組版](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/ja/)

## Features

- Built with Astro and UnoCSS
- Support for SEO, Sitemap, OpenGraph, TOC, RSS, MDX and LaTeX
- i18n support
- Light / Dark mode
- Elegant view transitions
- Rich theme customization
- Optimized typography
- Responsive design
- Comment system

## Performance

<br>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pagespeed.web.dev/analysis?url=https%3A%2F%2Fretypeset.radishzz.cc%2Fen%2F&form_factor=desktop">
    <img width="710" alt="Retypeset Lighthouse Score" src="images/retypeset-lighthouse-score.svg">
  <a>
</p>

## Getting Started

1. [Fork](https://github.com/radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset/fork) this repository, or use this template to create a new repository.
2. Run the following commands in your terminal:

   ```bash
   # Clone the repository
   git clone <repository-url>

   # Navigate to the project directory
   cd <repository-name>

   # Install pnpm globally (if not already installed)
   npm install -g pnpm

   # Install dependencies
   pnpm install

   # Start the development server
   pnpm dev
   ```

3. Refer to the [Theme Guide](https://retypeset.radishzz.cc/en/posts/theme-guide/) to customize your blog and create new articles.
4. Refer to the [Astro Deployment Guides](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/deploy/) to deploy your blog to Netlify, Vercel, or other platforms.

&emsp;[![Deploy to Netlify](images/deploy-netlify.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start) [![Deploy to Vercel](images/deploy-vercel.svg)](https://vercel.com/new)

## Updates

Retypeset releases [new features](https://github.com/radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset/issues/18) from time to time. Simply run `pnpm update-theme` to update the theme. If you encounter merge conflicts, please refer to [this video](https://youtu.be/lz5OuKzvadQ?si=sH_ALNgqxrYqNVQT) for manual resolution.

## Credits

- [Typography](https://github.com/moeyua/astro-theme-typography)
- [Fuwriu](https://github.com/saicaca/fuwari)
- [Redefine](https://github.com/EvanNotFound/hexo-theme-redefine)
- [AstroPaper](https://github.com/satnaing/astro-paper)
- [heti](https://github.com/sivan/heti)
- [EarlySummerSerif](https://github.com/GuiWonder/EarlySummerSerif)

## Star History

<p align="center">
<a href="https://star-history.com/#radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&Date">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&type=Date&theme=dark" />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&type=Date" />
    <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=radishzzz/astro-theme-retypeset&type=Date" />
  </picture>
</p>
